ChangeLog for KRepton                             -*- mode:text -*-
=====================


Changes from version 3.0.1 to version 4.0:
-----------------------------------------
Integrated the separate "Game" and "Editor" applications into a single
one (and, of course, a single source base and future KDevelop project).

Changed the game selection and playing user interface to a more
"document"-like model.  A game episode is "loaded" and from then on
all playing and editing operations apply to that, so allowing a single
action key to start or restart playing.

Too many changes to mention to the episode file management and the user
interface as a result of those.

Other enhancements:

Cache pixmaps (in new class 'Pixmaps') to avoid searching for files
every time.  Centralise sprite management in new class 'Sprites'.
Converted all graphics from proprietary BMP to unencumbered PNG.

Repton has three lives, as in the original BBC game.  The number of
lives remaining is shown in the status bar.

Added a "Clear" button for the high score history.

Repton starts to look round if he stands still for too long, as in the
original BBC game.

Added a "Display Size" option to play the game either as before, or
half or double the size.  Scaling is handled internally in the
'Sprites' class.

The editor can now show the transporter routes (very useful for
verifying that they go to the right place), and the selected
transporter (for verifying that the intended one is chosen).

Map and sprite editor windows simplified a lot by using higher-level
Qt classes rather than managing the scroll bars and the object preview
explicitly.  List of map objects handled in a common class
'ObjectList'.  Map and sprite coordinate box display handled in a
common class 'CoordLabel'.

Player and editor 'Map' classes combined into a hierarchy.  Points
tracking moved from map to parent class to handle multiple levels.
Playing sounds handled in new class 'Sound'.  Much unnecessary
repainting of game window optimised.

Episode 'blank' renamed to 'simple' (because it wasn't!), for testing
and practice.  New, really blank, episode 'blank' added as a base for
creating new episodes using the editor.

Removed the splash screen.

Report the 'errno' message, wherever possible and appropriate, for
file operations.

Other bugs fixed:

Set WRepaintNoErase for main game display widget to eliminate flicker.

Editor password field no longer loses focus when typing, when there is
only one level.


Changes from version 3.0 to version 3.0.1:
----------------------------------------- 
Fixed geometry setting problem that sometimes left an unpainted strip
along the bottom of the game window.

Graphical icons used for key and crown in status bar.

Fixed bug which corrupted sprites when saving episode from editor.
Simple "blank" episode available for starting new one.


Game - Changes from version 2.0 to version 3.0:
---------------------------------------------- 
Set up as a KDevelop project - this necessitated splitting up the game
and editor applications into two separate distributions, as currently
KDevelop doesn't handle building more than one application from one
source base.

Lots of conversion for for KDE 3 - use its classes whenever available
rather than the original QT versions, use QT Designer to build the
dialogues, use the KMainWindow/KAction framework for the menus and key
shortcuts.  Updated use of some Qt classes (QList<type*> -> QPtrList
etc).  Update resources searching and audio playing to use the new KDE
interfaces.

Added an indicator in the status bar to show when the "crown" has been
taken.

Allowed a rock falling on a broken egg to kill the monster (BBC Repton
did that, but in original KRepton it just rolled off :-(

Updated the startup splash screen.

Updated the high scores display - now in a column list with sorting.
The user's Unix login name is filled in as a default.

Cache some bitmaps in the game widget object ('bg' etc) so that the
resource file search isn't done on every repaint event.

Editor - Changes from version 2.0 to version 3.0:
------------------------------------------------
Lots of conversion for for KDE 3 - use its classes whenever available
rather than the original QT versions, use QT Designer to build the
dialogues, use the KMainWindow/KAction framework for the menus and key
shortcuts.  Updated use of some Qt classes (QList -> QPtrList etc).
Update resources searching to use the new KDE interfaces.

Fixed a number of null-pointer crashes (mostly in event handlers - is
this a consequence of the now multithreaded Qt?).

Added an application icon.

Editor main window: fade buttons where not allowed or applicable,
added an option to change an existing transporter.

Renamed "Strict Check"ing to "Consistency Check"ing to better describe
its function.  Added some more tests - transporter destination should
be blank (warning only), some rocks are available if eggs are present.
Split all the checking out into a new class CheckMap in its own source
files.  Report all of the problems, not just the first one found.

Split out most of the episode locating, loading and saving into a new
class FileIO, in its own source files.

Warn and ask when exiting the editor, if the episode has been edited
but not saved.


From here on is from the original HTML documentation
====================================================

Changes from version 1.0 to version 2.0:
--------------------------------------- 
Added a powerful editor for creating new episodes (it is possible to
modify the levels and the sprites).
 
Added the Prelude (E) episode (which is the same as the Prelude
episode with the sprites repainted).
 
Removed the mask1.bmp and mask2.bmp files from the episodes, because
can be calculated at run-time.
 
Removed the index file from the episodes; it is now determined at
run-time.
 
Fixed bug that caused the blip monsters looping forever.
 

Changes from version 0.3 to version 1.0:
---------------------------------------
Updated the configure files synchronizing with the kexample example of
KDE SDK package.
 
As a consequence of the above change, the source files are renamed
from .cc to .cpp.
 
Added sounds (the KDE interface is inadequate, though).
 
Added the High Score board.
 

Changes from version 0.2 to version 0.3:
--------------------------------------- 
Modified the background image.
 
Added the feature of loading sprites from different episodes.
 

Changes from version 0.1 to version 0.2:
---------------------------------------
Fixed bug in plants replication code.
 
Removed useless version.h header.
 
Added initialization of random number generator.
 
Cleaned up password dialog.
